# LeonardoTaiko

A basic and easy to use e-box with Arduino Leonardo/ProMicro.   

## Feature

* Written in Arduino IDE.
* Nintendo Switch Support
* Easy to use.

## How to use

## Hardware Parts
*Arduino Leonardo/Pro Micro
*Piezo sensor x4
*1MOhm resistor x4
*Bread borad and wires(you can print your own pcb if you want)

Note:
4 piezo sensors, for each sensor, one pin to A0-A3, another to the GND. piezo sensor will generate ositive and negative voltage when working, so positive/negative to GND probably doesn't matter. However I'm not sure if negative voltage will cause any damage to ADC on Arduino Leonardo.  

If that concern you, you can use diodes or diode bridges to fix this issue.  

Also I connect a 1M resistor to each sensors parallelly.

## Algorithm

Once a analog value is over the threshold, a hit will be detected. 

To prevent mistaken input, it will start storage all the analog input into buffer for a short period. Since the noise analog value on other sensor should be smaller than the one which actual got hit, comparing each value in buffer, the largest value should be generated by the actual sensor got hit.

So after some calculation, you should get the right sensor got hit.

Then convert it into HID keyboard or controller.

You can also imply some smoothing filter to preprocessing the raw analog input signal. In my case, the sensors are good enough.

I order to shorten the buffer loop and key pressing time for better latency and faster response, I imported dynamite threshold.

## Parameters Explain:

### ```threshold```

The value to trigger a input. The lower it was set, the more sensitive the drum will get. If it's lower than the idle noises which piezo sensor will definitely generated, random input will occur.

### ```outputDuration```
How long a key should be pressed. During the this period, there will be no other action.

In some devices (e.g. Nintendo Switch). A really short button press time will not be recognized.

Also if it was set too small, button will be released faster than the signal length sensor generated. Causing one hit got double input.

### ```cd_length```
How many times will loop to read all 4 sensors' ```analogValue```. The smaller it was set, the faster response you will get after one hit. and it will more likely causing mistaken input.

Since ```cd_length``` define one loop for all 4 sensors, ```buffer_size``` should be ```4*cd_length```.

### ```k_increase```
Every time a hit was detective, the threshold will change to the largest pin value multiplied by ```k_increase```. Which can prevent double input when the ```cd_length```/```buffer_size``` was set too low.

### ```k_decay```
Every loop the current threshold will multiply ```k_decay``` in order to go back to the original threshold.


###

## Credit
Switch support from
[Nintendo Switch Library](https://www.arduino.cc/reference/en/libraries/nintendoswitchcontrollibrary/) by [lefmarna](https://github.com/lefmarna).  
Algorithm inspired by multiple Taiko project, including:  
 [ArduinoTaikoController](https://github.com/LuiCat/ArduinoTaikoController) by [LuiCat](https://github.com/LuiCat).  
[Taiko-Input](https://github.com/sachikoxz12/Taiko-Input) by [sachikoxz12](https://github.com/sachikoxz12).